- [Instructor] So now it's time to dig into the lifecycle
as a whole by starting with an overview.
There are three primary phases of the Spring lifecycle,
and we're going to spend most of our time
talking about the first.
That first is the initialization phase,
and it by far is the most complex
and quite frankly the most interesting
of all of the lifecycle elements.
While in reality it is one of the shortest phases
in chronological time of the three,
it is really where we can impact
the behavior of our application the most.
The next phase is the use phase.
The largest majority of time
is actually spent in this phase,
but most of the interaction
with the Spring IOC container here is behind-the-scenes.
You may be using abstractions from Spring,
but during the use phase most of the work with the framework
is through proxies applied
during the previous or initialization phase.
And the final phase is the destruction phase
which of course occurs
when the ApplicationContext starts to close
by the calling of the close method on it.
Now again, we're going to spend most of our time
talking about the initialization phase,
so let's take a look at it from a high level now.
The initialization phase begins
when the ApplicationContext itself is created.
This can be done as in our example manually
or via runtime like an application server.
It is further broken down into two phases.
The setup of the bean factory via its initializations
is the first part.
The second is the bean initialization itself
and instantiation phase where your bean objects
are actually created and then managed by the framework.
So we're going to take a look at this phase
as an overview level.
So what you'll see is we have these first two parts
which are the loading of the bean definitions.
So this is when the bean factory itself is created
and all of our components come in.
Then we go through each bean in the bean factory in order,
we instantiate the bean, we call the setters on the bean,
and then we do some processing.
And we're going to talk about each of these in more depth.
And after all of this is done,
our application is ready to use.
So let's jump into that first part
of the initialization phase.